## Welcome to My Blog

This blog is all about linear algebra and its essence and application in real world

### Essence of linear algebra 

Linear algebra is a branch of mathematics that tackles linear equations, vectors, matrices, and many more. As a student, we may think that linear algebra is just a subject or course that gives us hardship and a subject that just needs to be passed. Linear algebra is important because there is a variety of topics that are tackled in this course that can be used or relate to real-life scenarios and even solve real-life problems. There are many areas that linear algebra can be applied to like in medicine, business, technology, and in many more fields that you can think of. The essence also of this course is that it can help in monitoring or representing data easily. We know that data is important these days, data are monitored so that it can help a business to be successful, some data help in tracking, and some data need to be analyzed to help a specific group or organization. For example, data scientist analyze and interpret data that helps an organization, some of the topics tackled in linear algebra can be used by them in interpreting the data and represent them through graphs. You don't need to be a data scientist to do these things, once you have completed and learned through this course you can apply them for your interest or to help others. There are so much more importance of linear algebra and the knowledge that we learned about this course should not be taken for granted, it should be used wisely because it can help us or people around us to have a better life. 


### Applicability in real world 

There are many possible ways that we can apply linear algebra in the real world. As mentioned above, linear algebra can be applied in different fields like medicine, business, technology, and many more. For example, one topic that has been discussed in linear algebra is matrices and their operations, this topic can be used for business. We all know that business' data need to be interpreted and analyzed so that the problems and improvements in the business can be analyze and done. Matrices can help in representing data and performing certain operations that can help in getting results needed like in the field of business, matrices operations can help to get monthly sales, profit, cost, and such. Another example is in the field of medicine, topics like vectors and matrices can be applied in that field. They can use these to interpret specific data like the rate of how effective the medicine they are making or they can monitor what illnesses are the most reported each month and every year, data like these can help them improve their services. Many topics are tackled in linear algebra and all of them can be applied in real life, we just need to choose and utilize them effectively so that it can benefit not only us but other people.



### Applicability of linear algebra specifically in computer engineering

There are many ways that linear algebra can be applied in different fields that were tackled in the previous paragraphs. In this paragraph, the application of linear algebra to computer engineering will be tackled. Computer engineering is a branch of engineering that integrates the field of computer science with electronics engineering. In computer engineering, students or professionals do not just program, design, or implement something. They need to understand various math techniques or topics because math is very essential in the applications that computer engineers build especially when dealing with hardware part or machines, computations are highly required so that errors can be prevented. Linear algebra is applicable in computer engineering because they can use various or all of the topics that were tackled in linear algebra in their profession. Most of the topics in linear algebra can be used in programming that will help computer engineers to compute or solve something. 

One example is that computer engineers can deal with the automation of machines, they can use topics like vector and matrices to convert the data that was received by the machine, and from that data, they can perform certain operations that can give them results that are essential and can be represented through graphs. Computer engineers also work with robots, we know that robots are programmed to work and most robots have sensors that help to give the program data that are needed. For example, the robot has a feature that detects the speed of a car, linear equations, and operations that were taught in linear algebra can be used to compute the speed of the car by getting the data that was captured by the sensor of the robot and inputting it in the equation that will solve for the speed of the car. 

In summarizing the application of linear algebra to computer engineering, there are many more ways to apply linear algebra to this field. As long as there are data that needs to be computed and interpreted, linear algebra topics can be used. In our daily lives, we don’t notice but the problems that we face every day involve solving and computing. Computer engineers develop applications and machines that will help you to solve them and from your other problems, computer engineers are the ones that apply the math or linear algebra techniques to their applications or machines that we don’t usually appreciate because we only see the application itself but not the computations that were done behind it.


